# Navigating the Curriculum

## Learning Goals

- Recognize how content is organized on Learn
- Understand the standard Learn workflow

## Introduction

Before we go any further, let's get a little more familiar with how lessons work
on Learn. In this README, we will briefly go over the different parts of the
curriculum on Learn.

## Tracks and Lessons

Lessons similar to this one make up each individual piece of curriculum on
Learn. Organized together, they form what we refer to as a _track_. Tracks are
typically organized into topics, with each topic containing a series of specific
lessons.

To view the lessons in this track, pop open the track navigation by clicking
'Curriculum' in the upper left corner of the page.

![Click for Navigation dropdown](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ironboard-learn/curriculum_drop_down.png)

The track navigation allows you to view topics within the course you are in,
navigate between lessons, and get an overview of upcoming content.

![View Navigation dropdown](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ironboard-learn/curriculum_navigation_menu.png)

Later lessons build off the earlier ones, so it is strongly advised that you
complete each lesson before you advance to the next one. Use this navigation to
go back and review previous content if needed.

Lessons you've completed will be filled in with a green circle. The lesson you
are currently on will be orange.

## Lesson Types

There are two types of lessons on Learn: READMEs and Labs.

### Labs

Labs are lessons with a coding challenge you must complete. A lab will require
you to write code and submit a solution. You can quickly tell if a lesson is a
lab by looking for the _flask_ icon:

![readme icon](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ironboard-learn/lab-icon.png)

If you are currently viewing a lab, this icon will be displayed to the right of
the lesson title. It also appears in the track navigation beside each lab.

All labs include a README that you will see on Learn. The lab README will
describe the objectives, overview, and instructions for the code you must write.
You should definitely read the lab README. If you're confused at any point,
always go back to the README.

You'll know if a lesson on Learn is a lab by the actions the right column asks
you to take. Labs will display the following on the right:

![Lab](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/LabLights.png)

To start a lab using the in-browser IDE, click the "Open IDE" button. The IDE
will appear with a copy of the lab materials within it.

![IDE](https://downloads.intercomcdn.com/i/o/41909803/629210713d1b1343c88b60d7/learnIde6.gif)

To complete a lab and move on, you must do two things:

- Write a solution that passes all the tests for that lab. Unless otherwise
  specified, testing your work is done by typing the `learn test` command (or just
  `learn`) in the terminal. Running this command lets Learn know when you believe
  that you have a working solution.

- Submit your code. When the tests are all passing, type `learn submit` into the
  terminal to let Learn know that you're ready to move to the next lesson.

Occasionally, you may encounter labs that do not have tests which we call _code
alongs_. These labs do not have any tests to solve, but are designed for a
hands on approach to learning a concept. For these, you will not need to run
`learn` to pass tests, but _will_ need to run `learn submit` when you are
finished.

### READMEs

READMEs are lessons that only have instructional content. They are designed to
teach you something without challenging you to practice or implement the concept
directly. The lesson you are currently reading is a README.

READMEs have an open book as their icon for quick identification:

![readme icon](https://s3.amazonaws.com/ironboard-learn/readme-icon.png)

Similar to labs, this will appear beside the lesson title as well as in the
track navigation.

READMEs provide context and exposition on a topic by breaking concepts down.
READMEs are how you learn enough to solve a lab.

As you can probably tell already, Learn is a big fan of the written word. Some
READMEs have videos, but our expectation is that you also do the reading. **The
video augments the content; it does not replace it.**

You're going to have to do a lot of reading on Learn. We know other platforms
make heavy use of short videos, and we're going to continue to experiment with
that medium. However, for now, the majority of the content on Learn is text. We
believe that with all the details and syntax involved in code – and since being
a professional programmer is basically reading and writing text all day – the
best way to learn to code is through reading and writing code, not watching
videos.

Some READMEs also contain brief interactive elements such as quizzes or little
in-browser coding challenges.

Once you've completed a README, you should click the "I'm Done" button on the
right:

![Readme not done](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/readmeUndone.png)

When clicked, 'Started Reading' will change to 'Completed', and the "Next
Lesson" button will light up, allowing you to proceed:

![Readme done](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/readmeDone.png)

## Conclusion

For the majority of curriculum on Learn, we will introduce concepts to you first
through a README, then reinforce those concepts by having you apply what you've
learned in a lab.

Seeing as this lesson is a README, you're now done and ready to go to the next
lesson. Click the "I'm Done" button and proceed to the next lesson.

Happy Learning!
